the most difficult part of public
speaking in my opinion is the part that
you can't really prepare for the
impromptu questions you receive from an
audience
in this video i'm going to talk a little
bit about table topics which is within
the toastmasters program and how you
actually can sort of practice your
ability to answer questions
that you don't know specifically what
topics they're going to be on what
they're going to be about but you can
practice the process of thinking on your
feet
answering on the fly this video is going
to dive into all of those things hey
everyone my name is wade patterson and i
am passionate about impactful
communication and if this is your first
time landing on my channel or maybe
you've watched other videos in the past
consider subscribing and turn on those
notifications to never miss a video
my goal is to help make you a better
public speaker
and overall a better communicator and i
will continue to put out video content
to help you achieve that goal if you're
landing on this video because you are
taking on the table topics master
role within toastmasters i want you to
check out the video that's popping up
right now on the youtube cards because
that is a video i did previously to walk
you through that role step by step so
stop watching this video right now and
go watch that video because that is
going to be much more helpful
the purpose of this video is to simply
explain what impromptu speaking is all
about and how there is a way in fact for
you to be better at thinking on your
feet and prepare for those audience
questions
which you have no idea what they're
going to be about so within the
toastmaster program there is a thing
called table topics and what table
topics is all about
is getting club members to think quickly
on their feet a table topics master will
come up with a list of questions and
call out various members one at a time
to answer these questions
usually the questions are related to the
theme of the toastmasters meeting but
they sometimes range and are
unpredictable and once you are asked a
question the audience starts clapping
and then you come up to the front of the
room and your task is to speak for one
to two minutes answering the question
that was asked of you some of the
questions may be very easy things like
wade what is your favorite food
people start clapping i come up and i
answer that question maybe that's an
easy question to answer because i've
thought about that in the past but the
questions get more difficult as well
a common question has been
if you were a superhero what would be
your superpower
okay now i start thinking about that
maybe that's something i've thought
about in the past but i haven't really
articulated an answer but the audience
is clapping i've got to come to the
front of the room and come up with an
answer i've even been asked very
difficult questions in the past with the
table topic section
another toastmasters member who belongs
to the club i go to we used to
almost play a joke on each other when
the opposing one was table topics master
we would ask each other ridiculously
hard questions to purposefully put the
other person on the spot and i'll never
forget one meeting
the table topics master my friend
asked me wade what is a hormone that has
been giving you some difficulty lately
what a tough question to answer to come
up with something
thankfully because i had practiced table
topics in the past and i had worked on
this skill of thinking on my feet i was
able to answer the question with well
the human growth hormone is something
that has given me a lot of challenges
because i'm only five foot eight and i
wish i was a lot taller and then i got
into my answer of my childhood always
wanting to be taller to play certain
sports i don't know how i came up with
that answer but i managed to come up
with it but this is the thing about
table topics and getting familiar with
answering questions in front of a group
of people that you can't prepare for you
hone a skill that makes it not so scary
to answer questions if you're like me
answering questions within a speech
whether it's during the speech or after
the speech is such an incredibly
difficult task i am somebody who likes
to be prepared and unless the topic is
something i am so well versed in and
incredibly confident in
i really struggle when i get a curveball
question or something that i've maybe
not thought about in the past my brain
freezes and i can't really think of what
i'm going to
answer that with
and many times especially early in my
speaking career i would say i'll have to
look into that and get back to you
and that's all right i mean the audience
members were reasonable they they
thought that that was a fair answer but
it doesn't feel great when you're up
there as the speaker you want to be able
to answer questions with confidence and
be able to really showcase yourself as a
professional on that stage so by doing
things like table topics within the
toastmasters club you are going
to really work on those skills and it
goes beyond public speaking you'll start
to notice that even at networking events
you'll meet somebody they'll ask you a
question
and because you're used to answering all
sorts of questions in front of bigger
groups of people you're never really
going to stumble and you'll probably
come up with more thoughtful ideas i
know what you might be thinking wade i'm
not in a toastmasters club how do i work
on this and prompt you speaking there's
various ways you can work on this book
the best way especially if you are about
to give a speech on a particular
subject matter maybe it's for a college
class or university class maybe you're
delivering a presentation at your work
whatever it is ask a friend or a loved
one to watch your presentation deliver
it in front of them and task them with
coming up with three questions to ask
you about what you just presented even
if they're not an expert in whatever
you're talking about
their questions are relevant ones
they're learning about the subject
matter that you're delivering and they
may have very basic questions or they
may have more complex questions but the
fact that you don't know what they're
going to ask is going to be really good
practice so that when you get up in
front of a bigger group of people and
you get thrown a curveball question
you'll have some experience and ability
to answer that confidently another tip i
have to help get you through the
question portion
is to make sure your timing is good on
the speech
and what i mean by that is that often
when we practice delivering a speech
we talk slower when we're practicing
than we do when we were are actually in
front of the audience when we're in
front of a group of people our heart is
racing we're breathing constantly
and it's likely that we talk quicker
it's something that's incredibly natural
i do it i know many people who talk
faster when they're speaking in front of
a group of people than they do in normal
life conversation or even when they're
on their own practicing the speech
they're going to deliver what has
happened so many times is somebody will
be slotted in for a half hour speech
they'll deliver their full speech and it
will only be 15 minutes it'll be half
the time that they prepared and now
especially if they are the ones required
to fill that full half hour gap the only
way to really do that is to ask the
audience if they have any questions
now you have 15 minutes of question
answering to do
and if you are an expert in your field
and you think that the audience will get
the most value out of a q a maybe that's
how you want to structure your
presentation
but if it's different if it's something
where you're you're somewhat comfortable
in the material you're presenting but
you want to speak for most of that time
and only leave time for a few questions
at the end
now you're in trouble because there is a
lot of time and a lot of room for
questions and the longer the audience
has to ask questions the more obscure
questions that you're going to get
therefore this goes hand in hand with
making sure your timing is really on
point when you practice know that when
you practice on your own you are
probably speaking slower than you will
in front of a group of people another
tip i have for answering questions that
you can't really prepare for it's the
old pr trick and that is to
sort of reframe the question into an
area where you are more comfortable
now i don't advise this this isn't the
most ideal thing to do the best thing to
do is to answer the question honestly
and directly but sometimes the question
is completely out of our area of
expertise
you can be honest about that and you can
say i haven't quite researched what
you're asking but i'm going to put that
on my list and i will follow up with you
however
what you're asking relates to this other
part of what i spoke about and why this
is important and you can reiterate that
point
so now you're not just saying to the
audience member i don't know you are
saying that you're going to research
that further that you will follow up
with him or her but you're also adding
value because you're you're curving the
questions that little pr trick of
curving it into your wheelhouse into
something that you are confident
speaking about that relates and it still
adds value to the audience member like
anything with public speaking practice
makes perfect so if you have the
opportunity to join a toastmasters club
or try attending a couple meetings for
the purpose of trying out table topics
in my opinion it's one of the best parts
of a toastmasters meeting you're going
to get the opportunity to answer
completely random impromptu questions in
a setting that simulates a realistic
public speaking opportunity but it's a
safe setting people
are okay with you failing in front of
them the whole point is to grow as a
public speaker that's why toastmasters
is such a great program and why table
topics is one of the best parts of a
toastmasters meeting i hope this video
on impromptu speaking and answering
questions after your speech has been
beneficial and added some value for you
if it has please consider subscribing to
my channel leave a comment below i'm
always i love it when people leave
comments that talk about videos that
they want me to cover in the future i
add those to my list and once a month i
record a bunch of these videos so let me
know if there's a certain video you want
me to cover otherwise i hope you have an
amazing day